README.md, before:

## Compilation
`cd` into the Assembly or EGSACreation folders and run:
* `make main`  to create the ./main executable
* `make clean` to removes all .o and executable files
* `make tests`:  to create the ./tests executable.  This exe will not run, as test data is not provided.

`cd` into the Scripts folder and run 
* `g++ -std+c++11 -o sim_reads simulate_reads.cpp` then `./sim_reads --help`
* `g++ -std+c++11 -o reverse_complement reverse_complement_fasta.cpp` then `./reverse_complement --help`

Note: to estimate the compression abilities of EGSACreation, first switch to the CompressionStats branch and subtract one from the intended k-mer size.

## EGSACreation

Setup: `cd ./EGSACreation`, then `make main clean`

Usage: ./main [--help] [--verbose] [command] [parameter=value]

Required: A command and a `-fastx_file` is required.

#### Allowed Commands:
* `probdesc`: Evaluates the fastx file.
* `linear`: Constructs the SA using the linear algorithm
* `threaded`: Constructs the SA using an algorithm suitable for threading.
              
#### Allowed Parameters:
* `-fastx_file`: file path of fastx file to be processed
* `-sort_depth`: Character depth to which the SA will be sorted
* `-min_frag_len`: Minimum acceptable read fragment length
* `-precise_depth`: 0 if SA sorting depth can exceed `-sort_depth`, 1 otherwise.
* `-num_threads`: Number of threads to be used. Min 1, Max 1024. Int only.
* `-alg_limit`: Bucket size below which the threaded alg will switch to comparison sort.  Min 1.  Int only.


#### Defaults
* `-num_threads`: 1
* `-alg_limit`: 80000
1. If `-sort_depth` given:
  * `-min_frag_len` will default to `-sort_depth`.
  * `precise_depth` will default to 1.
2. If `-sort_depth` is not given:
  * `-min_frag_len` will default to 1.
  * `-sort_depth`  will be set to the length of the longest read fragment, so that full sorting is performed.
  * `precise_depth` will default to 1, as sorting to a character length beyond that of the longest read fragment will have no impact on the result.
 
#### Notes
1. `-precise_depth`, `-alg_limit`, and `-num_threads` are only used by `threaded`.
2. The linear algorithm always sorts to a depth 2^n where n is the minimum value such that 2^n >= `-sort_depth`.


## Assembly

Setup: `cd ./Assembly`, then  `make main clean`, then

Useage: ./main [ESGA file] [minimum copy number] [maximum copy number] [results folder location]

Required: An EGSA file created by EGSACreation, with inputs  `-sort_depth` ,   `-precise_depth=1`,    `-include_rc=1`, and   `-output_file`.

Commit message:

Update ReadMe to make code purpose clear

README.md, after:

This work has been developed as part of a thesis in Genome Assembly at the University of Copenhagen, completed in August 2018.  The written body of work for this thesis will be made available in due course.

## Thesis Abstract
Prevailing de novo assembly paradigms are surveyed and a brief technical introduction to enhanced generalised suffix arrays (EGSAs) is provided, with a focus on the capabilities of the Burrows-Wheeler Transform. Following a review of current pattern matching algorithms on EGSAs, an extension is provided to enable reduction of the matched pattern. This flexibility sets the assembler apart from it’s peers. A hybrid between the simplicity of de Bruijn graphs and the informed overlap process of OLC assemblers is thus achieved. Subsequently, current compression methods are extended to summarily encode the EGSA, which is truncated prior to use. An implementation of this data structure and EGSA construction is carried out, alongside a minimally viable assembler. Real and simulated sequenced genomes are ran through this pipeline. The results and theory is then discussed in the context of the field and future research avenues.

## Available Code
Within this repository, code used to provide an overview of sequencing data, to generate truncated EGSAs, and to assemble sequencing data into a series of contigs (overlapping sections of DNA that represent a continuous region of the genome, as best determined from the sequencing data) is provided. `EGSACreation` achieves the former two points, whilst `Assembly` achieves the latter.


## Compilation
`cd` into the Assembly or EGSACreation folders and run:
* `make main`  to create the ./main executable
* `make clean` to removes all .o and executable files
* `make tests`:  to create the ./tests executable.  This exe will not run, as test data is not provided.

`cd` into the Scripts folder and run 
* `g++ -std+c++11 -o sim_reads simulate_reads.cpp` then `./sim_reads --help`
* `g++ -std+c++11 -o reverse_complement reverse_complement_fasta.cpp` then `./reverse_complement --help`

Note: to estimate the compression abilities of EGSACreation, first switch to the CompressionStats branch and subtract one from the intended k-mer size.

## EGSACreation

Setup: `cd ./EGSACreation`, then `make main clean`

Usage: ./main [--help] [--verbose] [command] [parameter=value]

Required: A command and a `-fastx_file` is required.

#### Allowed Commands:
* `probdesc`: Evaluates the fastx file.
* `linear`: Constructs the SA using the linear algorithm
* `threaded`: Constructs the SA using an algorithm suitable for threading.
              
#### Allowed Parameters:
* `-fastx_file`: file path of fastx file to be processed
* `-sort_depth`: Character depth to which the SA will be sorted
* `-min_frag_len`: Minimum acceptable read fragment length
* `-precise_depth`: 0 if SA sorting depth can exceed `-sort_depth`, 1 otherwise.
* `-num_threads`: Number of threads to be used. Min 1, Max 1024. Int only.
* `-alg_limit`: Bucket size below which the threaded alg will switch to comparison sort.  Min 1.  Int only.


#### Defaults
* `-num_threads`: 1
* `-alg_limit`: 80000
1. If `-sort_depth` given:
  * `-min_frag_len` will default to `-sort_depth`.
  * `precise_depth` will default to 1.
2. If `-sort_depth` is not given:
  * `-min_frag_len` will default to 1.
  * `-sort_depth`  will be set to the length of the longest read fragment, so that full sorting is performed.
  * `precise_depth` will default to 1, as sorting to a character length beyond that of the longest read fragment will have no impact on the result.
 
#### Notes
1. `-precise_depth`, `-alg_limit`, and `-num_threads` are only used by `threaded`.
2. The linear algorithm always sorts to a depth 2^n where n is the minimum value such that 2^n >= `-sort_depth`.


## Assembly

Setup: `cd ./Assembly`, then  `make main clean`, then

Useage: ./main [ESGA file] [minimum copy number] [maximum copy number] [results folder location]

Required: An EGSA file created by EGSACreation, with inputs  `-sort_depth` ,   `-precise_depth=1`,    `-include_rc=1`, and   `-output_file`.
